On top of Python, I was saying,
we are using a lot of stuff.
We have three main service, I think.
The service for the core resource,
the APIs, and the flow task that is the application for and for Tasa, how you say Jesus,
the graphical diagram flow task is like. is a DAX execution giant. It's like our high flow. That was the thing is we start developing,
development, the development of flow task
is because we have five years now
where when we started high flow,
it was...
No, seven years. We have seven years working on this.
Yeah. Guys, we have to separate...
We had separate ideas about dealing with tasks. For example, every task is a JSON or a JML script. We are
not writing Python code to running tasks. Every task is component-based, is one component, is a sequence of components,
is a sequence, we can create cycles or loops, etc. And it is growing very well in the company.
We are providing the 90% of the data integration in the company right now.
But mostly we are creating integration for FTP servers, etc.
Okay, let me share my screen one second to show us some examples of tasks created in Flotus. Give me a second, for sure.
It's free.
Let me start my Visual Studio.
This Flotus.
This is important because Flotus,
and that integrator, is our main tool for cleaning data,
cleaning data management, data ingest.
So it's an all-in-one tool we have
created for all the needs that have the company.
So here we have,
the only thing we don't have here is the analysis,
and that is something we can achieve because we can create
components. But the main goal in the start of beginning of the building of this was to
abstraction for the developer and the create process for lot data. For example, this is an example of a task.
This is in JML version of syntax.
If you see there are several steps,
every step is a component.
This component is for downloading a file from an FTP site.
If this is checking if the files already exist in the site,
this could open this CSV into a Pandas data frame.
Everything inside of Flautas is, the data is,
we are using Pandas for the transformation.
For example, this company called map is making a mapping
of, we have Apache ABRA format,
and okay, I take in the data frame
and apply this mapping to match the coordinates to the map.
This making that transformation automatically or we can use also a component called transform rows to transformation of rows by taking the
for example the kiosk status and convert to boolean, pass set on some rules, there are several functions to be applied
to transformation and also those functions are using Pandas transformation.
Everything is a Pandas data frame right now in Navigator. This is another component.
It's making a join between the data frame and data
collected from the database.
This is a component for filtering.
And this is the component is saving the data in a table.
This is the name in a table.
This is the name of the table and this is the schema.
This company is using Postgres for the flavor
or the database and is connecting directly to the Postgres and saving the data into it.
This is JML, but also we have JSON. We are supporting also JSON format.
It's the same. This is a query. This is a query to a database. The query is converted into a
Pandas DataFrame. This is filtering, removing columns we don't need it,
making some transformation of fields,
making another query, making a join between the bot datasets,
the query and the transformation,
making another transformation,
and then saving into a Postgres
database table.
This is the primary key of the table.
This company also is a oops-er company.
He's trying to insert the data.
If the data is not inserted, he's
trying to make an update.
Where does the raw data that you're,
these are like ETL tasks that you're
pushing out into Navigator, correct?
Where is the raw data stored?
Where was that CSV file in the first kiosk YAML?
Yeah. For example, when we don't know the data,
we are saving into a network file system now, Javier?
This directory, we are saving the data passed on the date into a network file system, no, Javier?
Yeah, exactly. We save all the real files we get for the clients,
and even for processing or maybe something.
That is a task we made from the beginning.
We have all the historical files from all the clients.
Start.
Then where do these get pushed to?
Like how would someone like me access the output of this ETL flow?
The kind of the ETL, for example,
the output of this ETL for example, the output of this ETL is,
if we don't provide the credential,
the component is connected with the default database,
and the default database is our mind Postgres database. I think. Okay, so in order for me to start pulling data from
Navigator, let's say I wanted to pull sales data that you guys
are pushing out through one of these either JSON or YAML scripts.
What's the best way for me to get started on doing that?
From Jupyter maybe.
Using our Jupyter server to getting data using,
first, our database connectors.
We are using Python.
We have a library.
Let me show you.
Let me start my Jupyter server.
We have, for example, we have several ways to get in data.
One is using database connector directly.
We can provide to you the environments variables
to getting data, to getting the credential for the Postgres,
InfluxDB, Rec-INDB, SQL Server, et cetera, et cetera.
That is the first way, using the Direct Database Connector.
We have also a library called asyndb.
Asyndb is an abstraction for using the same syntax to get data from different sources.
We have BigQuery, Influx, Lotta, Postgres, Minestrel, SQL Server, etc.
The third way is using query source.
Query source is a library for getting
we have an infrastructure to saving queries.
The client, he needs a query.
He create a query, okay, this query is, we provide to
the query with a name, okay. Sorry. And then we have those named queries, we have a library to get in programmatically that
data.
Okay.
Mostly that is right now the mine consumer because every saved query can be accessed using a RESTful API.
And right now the company is using Power BI to consuming those RESTful APIs. Okay. And also the third way is using directly pandas etc on the tools we are already
integrating Navigator and getting data directly from the from the from the network five system directory.
That is the ways we have to provide data for you. Okay, let me show you my Jupyter.
Give me a second.
One moment.
Okay. This is my local, but we have already the Jupyter server
serving in production or even in that. For example, let me show you for database connection. I think this is good.
Okay, this is the first way we used to, sorry, it's in Spanish because I made for my people, We are getting a CDB connection for Postgres
making a connection
Starting a connection using a Singapore syntax
getting
Saying I need it in pandas
Getting the data provided by the query. That's it. That is the only
So provided by the query that's it that that is the only uh so
i'm sorry i forgot that i removed a ip one okay um free and there is this is my data frame I remove the IP point.
There it is. This is my DataFrame.
Am I able to just run these commands and will this work on my machine or do I need to set up
some environment in order to get this to work?
Yes. Because we have VPN.
Currently, we can provide to you for an environment, an environment for the project
to run it, to connect it directly with the sources in depth or staging or production. Let me show you how we can use that. Let me stop here.
Let me start it again.
Let me check the...
One moment. Let me check the iPads.
Let me check mine. Yes.
When I start my project in local,
I can point to the production environment.
The production environment is a single environment file
with the credential of all databases.
When I start pointing to production,
I can right now start using queries directly from production.
Yes, because I stopped at the server.
One point important here is that you can have the best of the world. I forgot to start Jupyter in my. Yeah, this is what you can. Really, you have.
You can have the base of two words you can
have in the in your own bare machine installed the
project and connect to through the VPN to the service
and the data endpoints or use a software we have
to do this stuff on the through the VPN,
but we did with the browser or other tools.
It's like, go ahead.
You can connect, you're ruining the project in your local,
but using the VPNs to
connect into that to prop up to a staging directly.
You don't need to. You don't need to use local
database or something.
OK. So how do I get this set up on my computer?
Uh. He held you with that.
Yeah, it is, but It's not so difficult.
It's a gift repo.
You clone the repo and running and making start in your local.
Yeah.
Okay. That's what I need to get
the VPN and environment set up on my computer?
Yeah. That is something that's new.
I can help you with that.
Okay. Let me find your e-mail to start generating all the VPN.
For example, we have a library called a QS and QS this library. That's it. This is in production. I don't have that data in my local. This is a data temporary... ah no no no no
Javier, we don't have access to Odoo from VPN
find it to local resolution
we don't have, I don't have access to the Odoom from the VPN.
I checked it yesterday.
Oh, got it, got it.
Let me check it.
Let me prove with another.
Let's look.
This is the list of Pokemon stores.
And there is, I have the data.
This is, here is the result.
You see, all the data provided.
Okay?
It's so simple.
You only need to know which is the name and query
you need to run getting from QS the query
and that's it.
In the result you have the,
right now it's a list of dictionaries but you can use pandas for conversion into a data frame.
That's it. Okay, and you can start, you know, using Pandas libraries.
So to use the query source package,
that's a package that you guys built?
Okay. That's what I need the environment
and the VPN for, right?
To use that package?
Okay, cool.
I just wanna make sure I understand.
Sorry, I'm just taking some notes here.
Give me one sec.
And is there somewhere where,
so once I get this running on my machine,
how will I find the names of all the different queries?
How would I know what the Pokemon underscore stores one is?
Is there a list or directory of that somewhere?
No, but those names are saved into a Postgres table.
You can query directly to public dot query table and there are I think I think I
think Robin refers to if we have documented all this loop and something like that what belongs
and where is stores and worries I think we don't that is something more operational, but we don't have that. Even we create the name, this look is a program underscore process or model.
Right.
For example, Pokemon underscore stores are the stores of the Pokemon project.
And this is something is replicated on all the tenants.
You want to see Exxon store, you know that.
Exxon under the score.
You can see exactly like, instead of Pokemon,
epsilon is equal or Walmart or...
There are several conventions in Navigator.
There are several conventions. Navigator. There are several conventions.
I'll just have to become familiar with it myself.
Yeah. For the task,
it's the same. For the task as a program,
and the name of the task,
is the convention is the same.
For example, let me show you how to run a task. You see the task here in flow task.
Oh, give me a second. Oh . Is Jesus frozen?
I think maybe he lost internet or something
Yeah, I think I think he's free
okay, no, I I think I think he he's like that was low because
He totally freezable. He should have I don't know five or seven projects.7 projects instead of the time
is well he has a huge machine to do that.
While he figures while he reboots or whatever, let me ask you a question.
So what in what context would I wanna use Postgres
instead of just accessing it through the Python package?
Well. Is there any reason why I would use Postgres or
is that just what you guys use to manage the queries? No, well we use the the name a query
because it's a easy way.
To provide I am point a real imposter secure endpoint
to feed data.
We used to interchange data with the Power BI,
and even with the clients,
we provide some tokens,
authentication, and they can
feed their system with the data we collect.
The goal here is you have all the tools we have on your behalf,
because the goal is you can
easily get all the information we have on your behalf because the goal is you can easily get all the information we need.
Because the good thing with the query source is the query source is a name query that could
track, I don't know, can connect to the Redding DB or BigQuery,
or Postgres, RDS, Elastic Azure,
wherever you want it,
and with a single endpoint, feed all the data.
You don't have to connect,
have a client, you create the query and that's it.
The query makes the magic behind behind so you don't have to
deal with the connection with the VPN with this and
that and that is something that if give us to
the facility too. Make reporting more easily to young mesh
data from different origin.
Hello, I think you first too or is my.
Oh no. I think you're free.
I don't know guys.
See? you Hi Javier, sorry, my computer just crashed as well.
I've had a lot of issues where my computer keeps crashing and I don't know why so I know well if you if you do the work with the with the
With the data and the same time are connecting to the things and soon
This something that is going to happen. I don't I love why I have to
Separate the the laptop that I use for the meetings and zooms and all the stuff
It's different from the lattice war because it's a pain to working, it start working on something and suddenly crashes the computer because it soon hang up.
It's a pain.
Well, I was saying the goal is to have a single point of truth where I can,
or a single point of tool, a tool that can handle everything I need.
I don't have to build something for connect me to
rating or use another application for SQL Server.
With the query server,
I can connect to almost 18, 20.
Also, we can add all the.
The Java I don't know how how it's called the ORM.
The Hava has a lead that has support to I don't
know like 20 database more so we can we can
we can connect to almost everything here.
Even with this look this Even with the wonderful stuff with this look,
we can have, for example,
data from SQL Server,
I don't know, from Visits,
data from the Odoo ERP,
that is a positive,
but it's a different server.
Also, from Navigator, from ETL, that is a process that is a different server. Also, for Navigator, for an ETL,
that is a process that give those to client and
we ingest all the data and clean up.
We can merge, we can make a mashup the data,
the three-three endpoint or three-three sources of data,
we can mash up in a single loop.
So you're only going to call out one is loop
and it will feed you with data from different sources.
Without need, it start to spin up,
net anything technically with,
I don't know, application or creating Python script, anything.
It's-
So the slugs contain queries that have already combined multiple tables
on the backend basically, right? Exactly. I think that is the most powerful tool we have
because we are using, I don't know, like five years ago. When we started, we used Django,
and we create process and we create the ETLs,
discrete for load data and discrete for API for serve this data.
We found that there was something that we cannot escalate.
So that was the stop.
We stop all the development we were down in Django,
and start from the scratch with
these two on top of a sync. Look, Jesus is back.
Sorry, my computer crashed
when I tried to move.
Mine did too, it's okay.
Robin have the same issue.
Yeah, we are using Zoom,
but for some reason we are migrating to Teams
and Teams is failing too too much my magic.
Even I use the web version
instead of the client because the client is very booby.
For me as an end user,
it sounds like I'll be able to get everything I
need just using the query source package, correct?
I was in mute, sorry. This is something important because,
for example, I want to know what is
the context of what you are going to do or what do you need?
Because the goal is to we can provide you all the stuff you need.
Even if we can make some improvement of you need something we don't have,
we can integrate that.
The goal is where your leg arm,
where you can all the technical stuff,
the challenges that you need to tackle, we can help you. Yeah. So I don't have a specific use case I need today.
I think in general,
the first things I'll want are store lists and sales data for different clients.
Those clients primarily being Bose,
Hisense, and Epson.
Are those queries, like are those slugs already created, store lists and sales for those three
clients?
So maybe what would be helpful for me is we're going to run out of time pretty soon here
and I have some other pretty urgent stuff to work on this week.
But maybe early next week, Javier,
we can set up a call where you help me install the environment,
and we just run through a few examples of
me pulling a few slugs using the query source package.
I'll save some scripts to my computer
that just give me a template to work off of.
Then if we need to make any changes to
those logs or create new ones then we'll go from there.
Does that make sense to you guys?
Yeah.
Even for example, we are creating
this collection of Jupyter notebooks with some samples.
For example, we're getting sales data from HiSEM,
from Epson.
In Epson, we have in Postgres, we have a paper
with I think are 100 millions of sales
of Epson sales data from all United States.
And also we have a summarization in another database part. But if you need to get in the raw data we got from the client every week, we have a
table right now in the database. I have a question.
My suggestion also, we have already
integrated some EDA, some exploratory data analysis
inside of Navigator.
We have gdata profiling.
gdata profiling is the old pandas profiling.
Pandas profiling was renamed to gdata profiling. We have Canaries, DigiWorker, SuiteBees, and DataTail.
You can use some tools of exploratory data analysis already integrated in Navigator,
like Swiftviz or detail,
or for example, let me run this example
for getting data from,
this is an Excel file.
If I use PyGWalker, I can import PyGWalker,
our running PyGWalker.
PyGWalker creates this beautiful UI
to getting all the data is which column,
the distribution of the values,
if there are unique columns,
even create some visualization like
month index axis, sales index axis,
or can use Dtale,
I can run in this and Dtale open in another tab.
We can use the visualization to
get in relation between the columns.
There are several tools integrated right now in the Navigator ecosystem you can use for
starting understanding the data. Sweet Biz is more for that data understanding, you got every column, the values, the most frequent value,
you got, you know, for example, if you click here in association, you got the correlation
between columns or something like that. So how is using these analysis tools different from,
is this the same as just using them
as on a regular Pandas data frame on my computer?
Yeah, because the client
provide us with Excel file or we don't know nothing about the data.
We are not an Excel file we don't know nothing about the data we are I am not
an object self file I don't try to understand okay it is inventory or sales
or something okay we mostly I use party worker or or or the detail is recent.
It's not, this is new.
This tool is very new.
I integrated, we don't use it yet for our production.
Even, remember, we start the analysis of the data
and after that we industrialize in the process that we use,
we query source and aggregator because we create
the reports and we create a task and all the stuff that is needed.
Because the goal is the client can reach his data in an easy way.
So the goal is not,
I don't give these, for example,
to Steven, Steven don't have access to something like Jupyter.
He go to Navigator,
see a dashboard and see a graphic or maybe see a table with the data,
or even he can in Navigator,
in the Navigator visualization tool,
we can set up a table with data and he can filter all the data,
export the data and make it like a playground from there.
But it's a site when he can get all the information he wants.
That is something I want to ask you because I don't know what is the tool
that you are going to work with Steven and all the crew
to show the results or show the reports you are using.
You're going to use Power BI,
you're going to use something like that.
I don't know if we can help you.
I don't know if we can help you. I don't know if you create some metrics analytics or report,
we can put on one of the tool we have,
even Navigator or Superset.
I don't know. We have a team that can help with that too.
So the goal is, how I say,
they show the client we are
We're in the same
aspect of tool if we are we need to add a different tool we can add it but the goal is to try to
integrate with all the ecosystem we have because the important
Well, there is a there is a thing with the clients is there is a different stuff
but this is mainly for
Steven and all the C-level people.
So it's different.
It's different than the report that we provide to a client.
But if we can help you with the representation of all the process that you are going to create,
I want you to know you can come on us to help you to get that done.
OK, I I think step one is just getting the access to the data
itself and then.
Um, as projects start getting built out, I'll discuss with you
guys like all the results of those projects are going to end
up getting reported back.
Could you guys give me a quick walk-through of what you said,
Stephen, when Stephen accesses
Navigator and he's just seeing dashboards,
what does that look like for him and what tool is that?
Let me show you.
Is this something that I can access?
Yeah. Yeah, sure.
Right now, for example,
this is Navigator, you see it?
Yeah. So I just go to navigator.tirocglobal.com?
Yeah, and you can log in.
Navigator.tirocglobal.com, you can log in using SSO with your credential.
Obviously, we need to provide to you the permission
to getting access to all programs.
When you click in a program, you will see some dashboards.
And also, those dashboards are consuming the same API
the company used from Power BI.
For example, this is the regional manager,
BC by type of error.
There are-
These are basically visualizations
based on query source queries, is that right?
Exactly.
Yeah.
Exactly. All of these right? Exactly. Yeah. Exactly. All the solutions.
Yeah. All in the ecosystem,
Navigator, DropRoble, Jupyter,
it's Power BI integration are
using in the behind the query sources created.
Okay.
For example, DNS is a vc2gold,
or vc2gold by area, you can filter,
you can select a single area,
several markets, and apply, that's it.
Okay?
Yeah, no, this makes sense.
This is equal for every program,
like Pokemon,
Pokemon inventory, and it's.
Could you guys give me access to those three clients,
Epson, iSense, and Bose?
Yeah. I'm going to give you a sense. For example, for Sysen,
mostly those KPIs are passed on Vision Visits.
Isense, Epsom, and Bose.
Display compliance. both. Both. Both. Both. Both. Okay.
Display compliance.
If you can log in in navigator,
is that nice to have you like a user?
You will not have access, but it is.
Yeah, I'm in right now.
I just have, it just says no programs available.
Yeah, yeah.
Exactly.
Give me a second to give you access. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Give me a second.
No problem. Okay. Um. Okay. Sorry. I have my wallet. I'm connecting. OK, Robin is. Also, that does about heavier.
Yeah, if Robin will be the. That analyst, because why we we we.
We can provide with you. I mean it's try to profile.
And he can see everything.
Yeah, yeah, I think so.
I want I want to.
I can set up as a super user.
Yeah, yeah, but he need to see everything exactly. Yeah, yeah. He need to see everything. Exactly.
Yeah, let me give him access to everything.
That's also the user.
Okay, I'll... Thank you. This is the data export of Epson. This is the sales,
this product, model, the stores,
which made the sale,
the date, and the quantity.
Is this just a direct representation of
the slug from Query source or is this?
Yeah. There are an external loop for getting the raw data of this.
Got it. This is just a download source for that slug?
You can hear you waiting on Excel file for this but there are a look for filling this table.
You can use the loop instead of
loading the Excel file you can use the loop as well. through query source API.
OK, can you refresh your browser?
Yeah, I still see no programs available.
I can try log out and log back in maybe. Yeah.
Oh, yeah, there we go. Now I have everything.
Perfect.
Okay. Well, guys,
I think that's really everything I wanted to cover today.
My main next steps are getting the VPN
and the environment set up on my machine.
So I'll probably set up some time on Monday to do that with you have your if
that's OK. And I'm sure I'll have
more questions at that point and
we'll take it from there.
Perfect perfect.
OK, well thank you guys so much for
your time. I really appreciate it.
Right anytime anytime talk to you later.
Bye guys bye Bye. Bye.
Bye bye.